---
title: "Fantasy Football Pipeline"
date: 2021-10-29
tags:
  - Python


excerpt: "Make better fantasy football decisions with data science"
header:
  overlay image: "https://s3.amazonaws.com/cdn.freshdesk.com/data/helpdesk/attachments/production/61003253494/original/B8KAJ1eh4T4vvvEkpFEKRNE1j_LRbK-bxA.jpeg?1594736943"
  overlay filter: 0.3 # same as adding an opacity of 0.3 to a black background
  teaser: "https://s3.amazonaws.com/cdn.freshdesk.com/data/helpdesk/attachments/production/61003253494/original/B8KAJ1eh4T4vvvEkpFEKRNE1j_LRbK-bxA.jpeg?1594736943"
  actions:
    - label: "Go to GitHub Repository"


---

Fantasy football is a virtual game where players serve owners and general managers of their own teams created by them with actual professional football players.
After playing fantasy football for several years and basing my decisions on gut instinct, I want to devise a way to use all of the data available from different sources to make intelligent decisions in my league this year.
In this first project I will be using an API to gather all of my data. The website is called fantasymath.com and is cited above. What I would like to do with this data is code three different subprojects. The first project is the automatic import. This function is one which automatically brings in all data from the API and places it in a database using MySql. Part of this function will be generating a personal token for the website and then validating the token with a printed message. This will be done to provide a visual cue to anyone who uses the code that the function was successful in generating a token and accessing the website. A simple f-string will be used to show the token authentication was successful.
The next subproject will be the creation of a function that will bring in players and all their metrics from the website: fantasymath.com. Once this function is called the data will be pulled automatically and saved in a database. This will then allow you to easily run code and simulations on any of the players downloaded.
